- [Instructor] One of the hardest aspects
to grasp about Maven is how it handles
dependency resolution, specifically through the concept
of transitive dependencies.
So, you may be asking yourself at this point,
what is this transitive concept?
In short, a transitive dependency is a dependency
of a dependency, and so on.
It provides a mechanism to not have
to actually declare all of your actual dependencies,
instead focusing on only those things that you know about.
This reduces the need to know the inner workings
of libraries while also isolating you
from changes when upgrading versions
because if your dependency needs three dependencies,
you don't need to know what those three are.
Maven will actually bring them onto the class path for you
through this transitive model.
Now, as you might imagine, since software is managing
this transitive dependency process, there are rules,
and these rules can get you if you don't know them.
The first rule is that when two versions
of the same artifact are needed,
the one that is closest to the actual project wins.
Meaning, if project A has B and C as dependencies
and B relies on project Z 1.0
whereas C relies on project D which relies on Z 1.2,
Maven will pick version 1.0
because it's actually closer to A.
It's two degrees of separation instead of three.
Now, regardless of which is closer,
if there is a dependency management section defined
and the artifact is there, it will be the version chosen.
Scopes also play a big role in
what is included as a transitive dependency,
as we discussed when talking about scopes.
Local dependency declaration overrides
all other transitive dependencies,
so take that into account when you're building
your artifacts.
If you need a specific version,
just simply mark that on your POM file
and then there's no need for transitive dependencies.
So, I have gone through many iterations
of transitive dependency management in my career,
and I've come up with a few tricks that I find useful.
First and foremost, ensure you are only declaring
what you need.
Often, when declaring the POM,
what we think we may need only to find out
that we're aren't using it.
Using tools like Dependency Analyze
as part of your commit process will ensure
that you aren't declaring stuff you don't need.
In a similar way, ensure that you are using
the correct scopes for your dependencies,
as this can drastically impact transitive dependency trees,
sometimes negatively when you have the wrong scope declared.
Consider using parent POMs for your organization
to control version, especially when dealing with artifacts
that tend to break things or have security implications.
This is a real threat.
I used to use a library that had a bad habit
of breaking on odd number releases back in my SOAP days.
If I got this artifact transitively
and someone didn't know that,
there was a risk that I would break.
This happened more than once before I stopped
allowing others to impact my build,
and that, maybe, is the cleanest trick.
If you need to control the class path,
specify everything that you need to control.